Hi everybody and welcome back.
Today we're moving into a new section and that section is all about branching and conditions.
So every day of our nine lives we make decisions log into our email or access Facebook or not to continue.
Click this button buy a product.
Or don't buy a product.
In programming these decisions are called branching.
Think of branching as a decision to take one road over another.
Let's take a look at a quick example.
Using our newly acquired knowledge of the INPUT statement let's create a password checker so that you
can see here I vented in our usual comments and we're starting off with a print statement
to continue.
Please log in.
OK simple enough clothes are double quotes.
Close our brackets.
Now we'll enter in a calm and
using the if statement.
Perfect.
Now let's create a new variable called password which will hold the user's input and password.
Import
Please enter your password.
OK so far nothing out of the blue.
Now if password
and we're using two equal signs an implied and that means if the password is identical.
So not just similar not just almost absolutely identical.
So that includes lower case number of characters everything.
So if a password is identical to Tony
access granted nice Ok open sesame access granted.
Don't forget our closing quote here or else
don't forget the code on there.
Print
incorrect
please try again OK.
Close or double quotes close or brackets.
Let's have a look and run this program.
But first we have to save.
OK so here we are to continue please log in.
Please enter your password.
Let's go Tony.
Access granted.
Very very nice.
OK let's run it again.
Please enter your password.
Let's try Frank.
Incorrect.
Please try again.
This example has a couple of new concepts and in the next lecture we're going to be taking a much closer
look.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.